[WF-65] Go through "Environment Setup" guide, simplify it, and correct errors (#94)
canonical/temporal-k8s-operator: documentation/tutorial/02-environment.md

Reviewer: I'm curious to see what you think @afgambin; should we refactor this page to something closer to what we did in Kubeflow (see [here](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/charmed-kubeflow/how-to/install/general-installation/))? In that guide in the requirements section we listed a compliant Kubernetes installed and we added a section with links for how to bootstrap Juju.

Reviewer 2: That's a good point. If your K8s and Juju installation processes do not differ from the general process explained in their docs, I suggest to follow your suggestion, i.e., simplifying this guide and pointing to theirs instead, so we maintain a single source of truth (and they own it).

Reviewer: Yeh, I'd rather have it that way than to have something very specific. I strongly suggest we refactor it, @arjun11-malik thoughts?

Author: @DnPlas The linked docs guide Juju setup with MicroK8s, but in this update we want to shift the tutorial to Charmed Kubernetes (k8s), so the refactor won’t map directly.

Reviewer: @arjun11-malik I found the docs to be quite generic, actually. The general [docs page](https://juju.is/docs) lists various clouds. So perhaps we could link that, and then recommend to [bootstrap](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/3.6/reference/juju-cli/list-of-juju-cli-commands/bootstrap/) a controller in a [Canonical K8s cluster](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/3.6/reference/cloud/list-of-supported-clouds/the-canonical-ks-cloud-and-juju/).

  [here](https://juju.is/docs/sdk/set-up-your-development-environment#heading--set-up-an-ubuntu-vm-with-multipass).
- 8GB of RAM.
- 2 CPU threads.
- At least 20GB of available storage.
- Access to the internet for downloading the required snaps and charms.

## Install Kubernetes and bootstrap Juju

Charmed Temporal is deployed to Kubernetes using Juju. Before deployment, you need:

1.  **A running Kubernetes cluster**:  Canonical K8s is our preference. See [Canonical Kubernetes documentation](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/canonical-kubernetes/release-1.32/snap/howto/install/snap/) for installation instructions.

2. **Juju bootstrapped to your cluster**. See [Get started with Juju](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/3.6/tutorial/) for more details.

[note]

Our recommendation is bootstrapping Juju on a Canonical K8s cluster. See [Canonical K8s cloud and Juju](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/3.6/reference/cloud/list-of-supported-clouds/the-canonical-ks-cloud-and-juju/) and the [bootstrap command reference](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/3.6/reference/juju-cli/list-of-juju-cli-commands/bootstrap/) for more details.

[/note]

## Create the Temporal Model

> Once you have Juju bootstrapped to your Kubernetes cluster, create a workspace, or 'model', for Temporal. You can name it `temporal-model`:

Reviewer: I just noticed this phrase. Since we are in Juju world, let's just call it `model`.

```suggestion
Once you have Juju bootstrapped to your Kubernetes cluster, create a `model`, for Temporal. You can name it `temporal-model`:
```

  [Multipass](https://multipass.run/docs). A simple set of instructions to set
  up Multipass can be found
  [here](https://juju.is/docs/sdk/set-up-your-development-environment#heading--set-up-an-ubuntu-vm-with-multipass).
- 8GB of RAM.
- 2 CPU threads.
- At least 20GB of available storage.
- Access to the internet for downloading the required snaps and charms.

> ## Install Canonical Kubernetes (k8s)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Install Canonical Kubernetes
```
Let's not define acronyms within the headings but in the text

> On your machine, install and configure Canonical Kubernetes (k8s):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On your machine, install and configure Canonical Kubernetes (K8s):
```

```bash

> # Install Canonical Kubernetes (k8s)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
Let's avoid using text and comments within code blocks. Place that text, when needed, before or after the code block. This applies to all cases in this and other guides

sudo snap install k8s --classic

> # Create a single-node cluster

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

sudo k8s bootstrap

> # Wait until the cluster reports Ready

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
Again, as above, let's please place this text before the code block. Use and create as many separate code blocks as needed

sudo k8s status --wait-ready

> # Install kubectl and write kubeconfig for the current user

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

sudo snap install kubectl --classic
mkdir -p ~/.kube
sudo k8s config > ~/.kube/config
```

## Set up Juju

> Now on your machine, install juju, register this Kubernetes cluster as a cloud, and prepare a workspace ('model'):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now install Juju, register this Kubernetes cluster as a cloud, and prepare a workspace (`model`):
```

```bash
# Install 'juju':
sudo snap install juju --channel=3.6/stable

> # Register your Canonical K8s cluster with Juju as a cloud named "ck8s":

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Register your Canonical K8s cluster with Juju as a cloud named `ck8s`:
```
Again, to be moved before the code block.

  [Multipass](https://multipass.run/docs). A simple set of instructions to set
  up Multipass can be found
  [here](https://juju.is/docs/sdk/set-up-your-development-environment#heading--set-up-an-ubuntu-vm-with-multipass).
- 8GB of RAM.
- 2 CPU threads.
- At least 20GB of available storage.
- Access to the internet for downloading the required snaps and charms.

## Install Canonical Kubernetes

On your machine, install and configure Canonical Kubernetes (K8s):

```bash
sudo snap install k8s --classic

sudo k8s bootstrap
```

> Wait until the cluster is in `Ready` state. You can check it as follows:

Reviewer 3: nit: until the `k8s` cluster (we have many different "clusters", database/node/k8s/temporal. good to be explicit)

```bash
sudo k8s status --wait-ready
```

> Install kubectl and write `kubconfig` for the current user:

Reviewer 2: Is this `kubconfig` or `kubeconfig`? Please address it if the latter

```bash
sudo snap install kubectl --classic
mkdir -p ~/.kube
sudo k8s config > ~/.kube/config
```

## Set up Juju

Install Juju as follows:
```bash

> sudo snap install juju --channel=3.6/stable

Reviewer 3: consider replacing `3.6/stable` with `latest/stable`. this way, we do not need to update the docs every time juju releases a new version

- At least 20GB of available storage.
- Access to the internet for downloading the required snaps and charms.

## Install Kubernetes and bootstrap Juju

Charmed Temporal is deployed to Kubernetes using Juju. Before deployment, you need:

> 1.  **A running Kubernetes cluster** - Canonical K8s is our preference. See [Canonical Kubernetes documentation](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/canonical-kubernetes/release-1.32/snap/howto/install/snap/) for installation instructions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  **A running Kubernetes cluster**: Canonical K8s is our preference. See [Canonical Kubernetes documentation](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/canonical-kubernetes/release-1.32/snap/howto/install/snap/) for installation instructions.
```

2. **Juju bootstrapped to your cluster**. See [Get started with Juju](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/3.6/tutorial/) for more details.

[note]

> Our recommendation is bootstrapping Juju on a Canonical K8s cluster, see [The canonical-k8s cloud and Juju](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/3.6/reference/cloud/list-of-supported-clouds/the-canonical-ks-cloud-and-juju/) and the [bootstrap command reference](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/3.6/reference/juju-cli/list-of-juju-cli-commands/bootstrap/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our recommendation is bootstrapping Juju on a Canonical K8s cluster. See [Canonical K8s cloud and Juju](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/3.6/reference/cloud/list-of-supported-clouds/the-canonical-ks-cloud-and-juju/) and the [bootstrap command reference](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/3.6/reference/juju-cli/list-of-juju-cli-commands/bootstrap/) for more details.
```

- At least 20GB of available storage.
- Access to the internet for downloading the required snaps and charms.

## Install Canonical Kubernetes

On your machine, install and configure Canonical Kubernetes (K8s):

```bash
sudo snap install k8s --classic

sudo k8s bootstrap
```

> Wait until the cluster reports Ready

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Wait until the cluster is in `Ready` state. You can check it as follows:
```

```bash
sudo k8s status --wait-ready
```

> Install kubectl and write kubconfig to current user

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Install kubectl and write `kubeconfig` for the current user:
```

```bash
sudo snap install kubectl --classic
mkdir -p ~/.kube
sudo k8s config > ~/.kube/config
```

## Set up Juju

> Now install Juju, register this Kubernetes cluster as a cloud, and prepare a workspace (`model`):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Install Juju as follows:
```

```bash
sudo snap install juju --channel=3.6/stable
```

Register your Canonical K8s cluster with Juju as a cloud named `ck8s`:
```bash
juju add-k8s ck8s
```

> (Optional) Confirm the new cloud entry is present:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Confirm the new cloud entry is present:
```
Let's avoid the use of optional steps in Tutorials - they should be safe guided environments

```bash
juju clouds
# >>> Cloud      Regions  Default    Type  Credentials  Source    Description
# >>> ck8s       0                   k8s   1            local     A Kubernetes Cluster
# >>> k8s        0                   k8s   0            built-in  A local Kubernetes context
# >>> localhost  1        localhost  lxd   0            built-in  LXD Container Hypervisor
```

> Install a Juju controller into your `ck8s` cloud (we'll name it `temporal-controller`):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Install a Juju controller into your `ck8s` cloud. You can name it `temporal-controller`:
```

```bash
juju bootstrap ck8s temporal-controller
```

> Create a workspace, or 'model', on this controller (we'll call it `temporal-model`):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a workspace, or `model`, on this controller. You can name it `temporal-model`:
```

```bash
juju add-model temporal-model
```

> Check status:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can check its status as follows:
```

- At least 20GB of available storage.
- Access to the internet for downloading the required snaps and charms.

> ## Install Kubernetes and Bootstrap Juju

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Install Kubernetes and bootstrap Juju
```

> Charmed Temporal is deployed to Kubernetes with Juju. Before deployment, you need:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Charmed Temporal is deployed to Kubernetes using Juju. Before deployment, you need:
```

> 1. **A running Kubernetes cluster** - We recommend Canonical K8s. For installation instructions, see the [Canonical Kubernetes documentation](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/canonical-kubernetes/release-1.32/snap/howto/install/snap/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **A running Kubernetes cluster** - Canonical K8s is our preference. See [Canonical Kubernetes documentation](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/canonical-kubernetes/release-1.32/snap/howto/install/snap/) for installation instructions.
```

> 2. **Juju bootstrapped to your cluster** - For general Juju setup instructions, see [Get started with Juju](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/3.6/tutorial/). We recommend bootstrap Juju specifically on a Canonical K8s cluster, see [The canonical-k8s cloud and Juju](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/3.6/reference/cloud/list-of-supported-clouds/the-canonical-ks-cloud-and-juju/) and the [bootstrap command reference](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/3.6/reference/juju-cli/list-of-juju-cli-commands/bootstrap/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. **Juju bootstrapped to your cluster**. See [Get started with Juju](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/3.6/tutorial/) for more details. We recommend bootstrap Juju specifically on a Canonical K8s cluster, see [The canonical-k8s cloud and Juju](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/3.6/reference/cloud/list-of-supported-clouds/the-canonical-ks-cloud-and-juju/) and the [bootstrap command reference](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/3.6/reference/juju-cli/list-of-juju-cli-commands/bootstrap/).
```

I would add all this text as note box below these two bullet points:
[note]
Our recommendation is bootstrapping Juju on a Canonical K8s cluster. See [Canonical K8s cloud and Juju](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/3.6/reference/cloud/list-of-supported-clouds/the-canonical-ks-cloud-and-juju/) and the [bootstrap command reference](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/3.6/reference/juju-cli/list-of-juju-cli-commands/bootstrap/) for more details.
[/note]
